# Workflow Scheduling Coursework

### About
This program is designed to find a schedule the execution of a serverless workflow DAG on a single machine. 

---
### Pre-installation

In order to run the program, you'll need to install python virtual environment. You can follow the following steps:

1. **Clone this GitHub Repository to your local machine:**
    ```sh
    git clone git@github.com:Will-JacKnight/scheduling.git
    ```

2. **Navigate to the root directory of this project:**
    ```sh
    cd /path/to/this/project
    ```

3.	**Create a virtual environment:**
    ```sh
    python3 -m venv venv
    ```
    This creates a virtual environment in a folder named venv within your project directory. You can name it something else if you prefer.

4.	**Activate the virtual environment:**
    ```sh
    # on Windows
    venv\Scripts\activate

    #on macOS or Linux
    source venv/bin/activate
        ```
5.	**Install the required pre-requisites:**
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

---
### User Instruction
To test with the this program, if all prerequisites are installed properly, simply run the 'src/main.py' file and results for both algorithms will display on the CLI.
```sh
# dependent on the system, either:
python src/main.py
python3 src/main.py
```

1. Intermediate scheduling results display control
Turn on more verbose intermediate results by setting the value of `verbose` to `True`, which is set to `False` by default.

2. Modify parameters for Tabu Search
Vary different values of K (maximum number of iterations), L (Tabu list length) and gamma (tolerance) by assigning different values in `find_schedule` parameter list. 
Set `aspiration_criterion` to `True` to apply the algorithm with an aspiration criterion, which is set to `False` by default. 
Optionally provide an initial solution (1 indexing) in `initial_schedule`. An initial schedule is generated by default if no initial schedule is provided.

---
### Other useful information about this codebase
 - This program is designed to be scalable, where DAG structure and algorithms are defined as modular classes, both of them can be swapped easily.
 - The details of jobs are stored in the "data/data.xlsx", while the precedence relationship of jobs (DAG) is defined in "main.py" as an edge variable for easy implementation.
 - Both LCL and Tabu Search algorithms are defined as single classes in "src/algorithm.py", where you will find switching algorithms fairly easy.

---
 ### Credits
This project is developed by Wang, Jiankai and Huang, Yile.
Special thanks to Casale, Giuliano and Paccagnan, Dario.
